---
layout: post
title: "A little about me"
description: "bio"
category: post
---

Hey! I am looking for a place to stay in Manhattan or Brooklyn (it's a hard choice, I know). I made this page to easily send my bio to anyone looking for roommates. 

I'm a 27 yr old male. My workplace is in Midtown. I will go to work 5 days a week. I have been working in the city since May '22 after graduating from Columbia University. I keep the common areas clean and wouldn’t mind cleaning them either. With the right tools, it hardly takes more than 5-10 mins. I keep the volume levels low or wear my earphones. I won’t play music at a party-level loudness but it's not that I will want you to not play it either. I like randomness. I'd actually love a change in the mood of the apartment.

I won't cook for myself but on some days I will gladly help you cook because I want to get into cooking.I won't have people visiting or staying. I am not into staying out too late (nothing good happens after 2am anyways). Not much into clubbing or drinking. Maybe once in a fortnight. I usually go out to social club events, open mics, improv shows, to pet some dogs or people watch of course.

Love these - surprises, stoicism, short stories, self-awareness, strangers

Not these - conformity, conceit, complaining

I blog too. My posts are in my notes app and as I find time to polish them I will put them here. Below is one of the posts which is like a shower thought about shower thoughts.

**Why I really put anti-slip mats in a bathtub shower**
I had put anti-slip mats in the bathroom of the place I subleased in Newport to reduce the danger of slipping in the bathtub. I was living with 5 college kids and I had observed them be somewhat careless with their limbs. Not that I'm overly cautious with my own but having slipped once in the shower I move with more care. They didn't notice the mats at first and I had to ask one of them if they felt the shower any different. A weird question to be asking as someone who has become their roommate just a week ago. So after they became aware of the mats they asked me why did I think I needed to put those and I gave them the obvious reason. The next morning, a more meaningful reason came to my mind of why I like having anti-slip mats in my bathtub for showering.

For me, taking a shower is akin to meditation. Meditation is comparable to letting go of the small things that bother you and once you do it you are automatically listening to the higher self. So, in a way, one needs to take themselves out of their way to listen to their higher self who is very much within them only quieter because it is so empowered that it does not need to speak loudly. This is probably why to listen to one’s higher self one has to quiet their life almost absolutely which is what meditation is.

So how do we let go? I think the answer is to just do it. Either one need to feel secure enough first to let go or if you are move risk-favoring you can let go and you will feel secure. It works both ways. Let's try to achieve this while showering. The curved surfaces of a bathtub can often feel slippery to move around when taking a shower standing in one. There is a slight fears at a subconscious level perhaps that their feet might slip. I think this is equivalent to the uncertainty one feels because of one's insecurities. So if the anti-slip mats can make one feel more secure while showering in a bathtub I think this sense of stability will make it easier for them to relax or “lose themselves” and tune in to listen to their higher self. Wish you more shower thoughts! 